The two most fundamental natural calamities, we suffer with are FLOOD and DROUGHT. Both causes because we are not being able to deal with
our most fundamental natural resource WATER. 
As we know that during floods we have water everywhere, we are left with no place to stay when hit by flood water remains everywhere, and 
that too unclean unhygienic. The water that surrounds is not good enough to drink. All the water bodies get mixed up sewage water, other
small water bodies river water etc. On the other hand when drought hits we are left with no water resources, we even don't have unclean
or unhygienic water which we could further refine in order to drink. Thus in both the cases we are hit by water but in two different and
extremely opposite ways.
Therefore taking account of the affects of flood and drought we need to conserve water. An intutive idea that comes to mind when we think
of managing water resource in flood and drought is that why dont we store water in case of floods when we have ample water and we can 
store it so that we can use that water when we suffer with scarcity of water or even better we can store water when we have excess of 
water so that we dont even let flood attack and at the same time we can stop the possibility of drought too by storing water.
So we can tackle the problem of flood as well as drought if we can save water at the time of flood or before flood so that we can save 
ourselves from the huge loss that occurs during flood . 
Some of the ways by which we can save water before flood are as follows.
>We can have dams built across river so that river water will be stored in there when will be in excess.
>we can have large number of ponds dug so that to store rain water, which can be further used
>In our homes we can use water tank under ground which will store rain water through roof.
One of the ways by which we can save water during flood are as follows.
>we can store flood water in ponds.
The water stored by above techniques can manage flood as well as drought, when we will have scarcity of water. Also we can minimise our 
water usage to avoid droughts. Some of the ways are described as follows:
>we should not throw away water that has been used for washing vegetables rice and dals instead they can be used in watering plants 
washing floors or other household activities.
>use only the amount of water you actually need.
>Avoid flushing the toilet unnecessarily
>encourage your family and others to keep looking for new ways to save water